Daily on Trello
===============

This is an attempt to apply an Agile methodology to non-software development
processes. In this regard, I am treating the support role as a project.

The `Daily on Trello` is a board designed to help with daily organization of
activities for support related projects that can be used in daily interaction.

There is a more in depth explaination of the Tasks which are stored as cards
on the Trello board in `Tasks`.

The `Lists` section contains a review of the following lists:

  * Done
  * Futures
  * Current
  * In Process
  * In Review
  * Blocked
  * Backlog

Finally a review of the flow of a `Task` through the `Lists` is provided in the
`Flow` section.

Tasks
=====

Tasks are cards in the Daily on Trello method. Tasks are provided with a
specific naming convention including the date and name.

For example:

  2016-05-01 Write Example Card Name

The date formate for all cards must reflect their expected completion date or
the current date. Hard dealines must be set with `Due Date`.

The bulk of detail for the tasks should be stored in `Description`.

As the creation and movement of cards are logged in the card activity,
there is no need to note the change in the name of the card for updates to the
date.

Lists
=====

These are the various states individuals tasks can be in within the context of
daily operation. This board does not provide any form of priority outside of
positioning cards in the vertical stack, though this may not be relevant.

Done
----

This first list is a reminder of all the tasks that have been completed. This
may be pruned periodically, or stacked in historical or any other type of
relevance.

This list should be long and provide a sense of accomplishment.

Futures
-------
For tasks that can should be completed sometime in the next several days, the
futures list can be used as a staging process and also provide insight related
to the current sprint of daily tasks.

This list can be longer than the `Current` list, but not excessively.

Current
-------

These are the tasks which should be completed in the daily scope. Not all tasks
may be completed within a day, and so may transition to other lists over their
lifetime.

This list should not be more than a handful, as the purpose of this list is not
meant to override the regular duties of the support role, but provide a context
to work with throughout the day.

In Process
----------

When a current task is currently being evaluated or performed, it will be
placed in this list. This is a temporary list, and any task that remains in
this list for extended periods may likely need to be expanded into further
sub-tasks to be completed.

This list should be left short, and any tasks that are left in it over several
days needs to be evaluated for simplification to smaller tasks. Having too many
cards in this list could be a sign of inefficient context switching.

In Review
---------

When a task is completed, it may need to be reviewed by peers, or integrated
into a larger project.

This list may take on many different sizes depending on the projects being
worked on.

Blocked
-------

As the list name suggests, these are tasks that rely on the completion of
other tasks or require data from external sources before they can be worked on
and in turn scheduled.

This list may take on many different sizes depending on the projects being
worked on.

Backlog
-------

This is the list of tasks that can be completed, that have qualified for
`Current` and have not been completed.

If this list is excessively long, it could indicate issues with availability
for working on projects.

Flow
====

The Daily board should be consulted in the following conditions:

  * Start of day to promote or demote `Task` cards.

  * When switching context to complete a `Task`.

  * End of day to promote or demote `Task` cards.

A concrete task is determined. This may be placed in `Future`, or `Blocked`
depending on the state of the prerequisites of the task.

A task in `Blocked` may be promoted to `Future` with the anticipated date, or
may be directly promoted to `Current`.

A task with no anticipated date, or lower priority may be moved to `Backlog`.

When a task is promoted to `Current`, it is expected to be worked on at some
point in the daily run.

If it is blocked, it is moved to `Blocked`. When a point in the day comes when
it is being worked on, it is promoted to the `In Process` list.

When a `Current` is being worked on, the card is moved to `In Process`. Once
completed, it is promoted to `In Review` or `Done`.

If there are no `Current` tasks, some may be promoted from the `Backlog`.
